# Crop-Yield-Predition

In response to the critical need for a reliable global food supply amidst the growing world population, the project emphasizes the modernization of crop yield prediction. Farmers traditionally rely on only the historical crop statistics and crop growth records for yield estimation. This approach proves cost-ineffective, prompting a shift towards data analytics and machine learning. The goal is to enhance crop yield predictive accuracy by integrating technological advancements and considering the role of weather, location, and soil conditions along with the crop yield data. This approach holds the potential for efficient crop growth, improved food security, optimal resource management, environmental sustainability, and increased financial stability. Advanced time-series forecasting-based machine learning models, including LSTM (Long Short-Term Memory) Networks, XGBoost Regressor, ARIMA (Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average), and LightGBM (Light Gradient-Boosting Machine), are employed to predict crop yield and compared using evaluation metrics such as Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), Mean Squared Error (MSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE), and R² (R-squared) score. LSTM emerges as the best model, yielding an MSE value of 10.24, an MAE value of 2.3, an RMSE value of 3.2, and an R2 score of 0.44. The future scope includes the development of a hybrid model that would provide superior performance compared to standalone models for predictions. 
Keywords: Crop yield prediction, Machine learning models, Data Analytics, ML evaluation metrics, LSTM, ARIMA, LightGBM, XGBoost Regressor
